.\" t
.\" @(#)Tile.1  02/07/00
.TH Tile 1.8 "Feb 7 2000" Tile
.UC
.SH NAME
\fBTile\fP \- the AfterStep window tiler module

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBTile\fP [\-f \fIconfig_file\fP] [\-v | \--version] [\-h | \--help]
[\-f \fIconfig_file\fP] [\-h | \--help] [\-v | \--version] [\-a] [\-desk] 
[\-h] [\-m] [\-mn \fIarg\fP] [\-noraise] [\-noresize] [\-nostretch] [\-r] 
[\-s] [\-t] [\-u]
.sp
Although \fBTile\fP can be run from the command line, it is normally 
spawned by afterstep from within an afterstep menu file by 'Tile':
.nf
.sp
% cat "~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/start/Modules/Tile"
	Module "Tile" Tile
	MiniPixmap "mini-as.xpm"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBTile\fP module attempts to tile windows on the current desktop view
subject to certain constraints.  Horizontal or vertical tiling is performed
so that each window does not overlap another, and by default each window
is resized to its nearest resize increment (note sometimes some space
might appear between tiled windows -- this is why).

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-f \fIconfig_file\fP"
Use \fIconfig_file\fP instead of the default configuration file.

.IP "\-h | \--help"
Print a usage message and exit successfully.

.IP "\-v | \--version"
Print version information and exit successfully.

.IP "\-a"
Causes \fIall\fP window styles to be affected, even ones with the
WindowListSkip style.

.IP "\-desk"
Causes all windows on the desk to be cascaded instead of the current
screen only.

.IP "\-h"
Tiles horizontally (default is to tile vertically).

.IP "\-m"
Causes maximized windows to also be affected (implied by \-all).

.IP "\-mn \fIarg\fP"
Tiles up to \fIarg\fP windows in tile direction.  If more windows
exist, a new direction row or column is created (in effect, a matrix
is created).

.IP "\-noraise"
Inhibits window raising, leaving the depth ordering intact.

.IP "\-noresize"
Inhibits window resizing, leaving window sizes intact.

.IP "\-nostretch"
Inhibits window growth to fit tile.  Windows are shrunk to fit the
tile but not expanded.

.IP "\-r"
Reverses the window sequence.

.IP "\-s"
Causes sticky windows to also be affected (implied by \-all).

.IP "\-t"
Causes transient windows to also be affected (implied by \-all).

.IP "\-u"
Causes untitled windows to also be affected (implied by \-all).

.SH INITIALIZATION
\fBTile\fP has no configuration file.

.SH INVOCATION
\fBTile\fP can be invoked from the \fIautoexec\fP file or by binding the
action "Module Tile \fI[args]\fP" to a key-stroke in a \fIfeel\fP file,
or from a menu item as  shown in the Synopsis section above.

AfterStep will search through the directories specified in the
\fIModulePath\fP configuration in the \fIbase.#bpp\fP (where # is your
colordepth) to attempt to locate Tile.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
Command-line arguments passed to \fBTile\fP are described in the 
\fIOPTIONS\fP section, above.

Up to four numbers can be placed on the command line that are not
switches.  The first pair specify an x and y offset to start the first
window (default is 0, 0).  The second pair specify an absolute
coordinate reference denoting the lower right bounding box for tiling.
If any number is suffixed with the letter p, then it is taken to be a
pixel value, otherwise it is interpreted as a screen percentage.
Specifying zero for any parameter is equivalent to not specifying it.

.SH EXAMPLES
This invocation will horizontally tile windows with a bounding box which
starts at 10 by 10 percent into and down the screen and ends at 90 by 90
percent into and down the screen.
.EX
Tile -h 10 10 90 90
.EE

.SH BUGS
It is probably not a good idea to delete windows while windows are
being tiled.

.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Veliath
.nf
David Mihm <dmihm@swbell.net> [Man page]

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR afterstep (1)
