.\" t
.\" @(#)Wharf.1		02/07/00
.TH Wharf 1.8 "Feb 7 2000" Wharf
.UC
.SH NAME
\fBWharf\fP \- the AfterStep "application dock" module

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBWharf\fP [\-f \fIconfig_file\fP] [\-v | \--version] [\-h | \--help]
.sp
Although \fBWharf\fP can be run from the command line, it is normally 
spawned by afterstep in the \fIautoexec\fP file, in the following manner:
.nf
.sp
	Module		"I"	Wharf
	Wait		"I"	Wharf
.sp
.fi
\fIWait\fP is used to allow \fBWharf\fP to swallow the apps specified in the
\fIwharf\fP file prior to afterstep starting other apps which use the same
name.
.sp
or from within an afterstep menu file by 'Wharf':
.nf
.sp
% cat "~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/start/Modules/Wharf"
	Module "Wharf" Wharf
	MiniPixmap "mini-as.xpm"
.fi

To stop the \fBWharf\fP module, a menu item can be used:
.nf
.sp
% cat "~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/start/Modules/Wharf_Stop"
	KillModuleByName "Stop Wharf" Wharf
	MiniPixmap "mini-as.xpm"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBWharf\fP module is a free-floating application loader that can
execute programs, "Swallow" running programs, and contain "Folders" of
more applications, among other things.

Pressing mouse button 1 on a button triggers either a "Folder" to open,
or an application to run, while pressing mouse button 3 will cause
the entire /fBWharf/fP to withdraw to the nearest corner in an iconized
state. Some swallowed apps have mouse button 2 bound for its use.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-f \fIconfig_file\fP"
Use \fIconfig_file\fP instead of the default configuration file.

.IP "\-h | \--help"
Print a usage message and exit successfully.

.IP "\-v | \--version"
Print version information and exit successfully.

.SH INITIALIZATION
During initialization, \fBWharf\fP will search for a configuration
file which describes the button panel geometry, color, icons, and
applications to use/swallow. This file will be the one specified by the 
\fI\-f\fP option (if given).  Else, the ~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/wharf 
file will be used if it exists.  Else, /usr/local/share/afterstep/wharf 
will be used.

If the \fBWharf\fP executable is linked to another name, ie ln -s \fBWharf\fP
\fBOtherWharf\fP, then another module called \fBOtherWharf\fP can be started,
with a completely different set of configurations than \fBWharf\fP, simply by
adding configuration options with the keywords \fI*OtherWharf\fP.
This way multiple \fBWharf\fP programs can be used.  Note that the symlinked
module can not be called Wharf<something>, as afterstep will pressume
the standard Wharf binary.

.SH INVOCATION
\fBWharf\fP can be invoked from the \fIautoexec\fP file or from a menu
item as shown in the Synopsis section above.

AfterStep will search through the directories specified in the
\fIModulePath\fP configuration in the \fIbase.#bpp\fP (where # is your
colordepth) to attempt to locate \fBWharf\fP; as well as searching through
the \fIPixmapPath\fP for the pixmaps & \fIIconPath\fP for the bitmaps
supplied in the configuration options.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
\fBWharf\fP reads the \fIwharf\fP file when it starts up and looks for
it's configuration options:

.IP "MyStyle ""*WharfTile"""
Specifies the style of the wharf button tiles, including background color, 
background pixmap (which may be transparent), and background gradient. 
This method of specifying the background is preferred over the BgColor, 
MaxColors, Pixmap, TextureColor, and TextureType options, although those 
(older) options do still work. See \fBafterstep(1x)\fP for details on the 
\fIMyStyle\fP format.

.IP "*WharfTextureType \fItype\fP"
Specifies the type of gradient fill or pixmap to be used on 
\fBWharf\fP's buttons.  Valid values for type are:
.nf
0 - No texture - use \fIWharfBgColor\fP to set the desired color
1 - Gradient from upper-left to lower right
2 - Horizontal one way gradient from top to bottom
3 - Horizontal cylindrical gradient from top/bottom to center
4 - Vertical one way gradient from left to right
5 - Vertical cylindrical gradient from left/right to center
128 - User defined pixmap
.fi
The default is the builtin \fIWharf\fP texture pixmap.

.IP "*WharfTextureColor \fIfrom\fP \fIto\fP"
When used with a \fI*WharfTextureType\fP of 1 through 5, designates the
ends of the color gradient's range to be used on \fBWharf\fP's buttons.

.IP "*WharfPixmap \fIpixmap\fP"
Sets the pixmap file to be used as \fBWharf\fP's button.  To be used
with \fI*WharfTextureType 128\fP. If the pixmap is transparent, 
\fBWharf\fP will be transparent (shaped). The path need not be specified 
if the pixmap is in the \fIPixmapPath\fP specified in the \fIbase.#bpp\fP 
file. Valid pixmaps are XPM, JPEG, or PNG.

.IP "*WharfBgColor \fIcolor\fP"
If \fI*WharfTextureType 0\fP is specified, \fIWharf\fP's buttons
will be filled with \fIcolor\fP.

.IP "*WharfMaxColors \fInumber\fP"
Specifies the maximum \fInumber\fP of colors to use on a gradient
fill.

.IP "*WharfAnimate"
If specified, the opening and closing of Folders will be animated, 
rather than simply drawn in one frame.

.IP "*WharfAnimateMain"
Designates that full-length \fIWharf\fP withdraws will be animated.

.IP "*WharfAnimateDelay \fIdelay\fP"
Specifies the \fIdelay\fP in milliseconds that the animation will pause
between each move when opening or closing a folder.

.IP "*WharfAnimateSteps \fIsteps\fP"
Specifies the \fIsteps\fP a Folder takes in animating while opening or
closing.  This translates into the Folder button moving
<button-size>/\fIsteps\fP pixels each step.

.IP "*WharfAnimateStepsMain \fIsteps\fP"
Specifies the \fIsteps\fP the main Wharf takes in iconification or
de-iconification upon mouse button 3 being pressed. This translates into
the main Wharf moving <button-size>/\fIsteps\fP pixels each step.

.IP "*WharfBalloons"
Turns on the balloon feature. A "balloon" is displayed showing the name 
of the button the pointer is resting on in the \fBWharf\fP. The balloon 
background and text are configured with the MyStyle "*WharfBalloon".
See \fBafterstep(1x)\fP for more information on MyStyles.

.IP "*WharfBalloonBorderWidth \fInumber\fP"
Sets the width of the balloon window's border. Defaults to 1.

.IP "*WharfBalloonBorderColor \fIcolor\fP"
Sets the color of the balloon window's border. Defaults to black.

.IP "*WharfBalloonDelay \fInumber\fP"
Specifies the period in milliseconds to delay the appearance of the balloon.

.IP "*WharfBalloonYOffset \fInumber\fP"
The balloon window is positioned to be horizontally centered against
the \fBWharf\fP window it is describing. The vertical position may be
set as an offset. Negative offsets of \fI-N\fP are placed \fIN\fP
pixels above the \fBWharf\fP window, positive offsets of \fI+N\fP are 
placed \fIN\fP pixels below. Defaults to +2.

.IP "*WharfFullPush"
If specified, the entire \fBWharf\fP button background will be offset down
and to the right 2 pixels when pushed.  Especially useful with
\fI*WharfNoBorder\fP textures.

.IP "*WharfNoPush"
If specified, the entire \fBWharf\fP button will not appear as if it is
being pushed in.

.IP "*WharfNoBorder"
Denotes that beveled borders should not be drawn around the \fBWharf\fP
button. Useful with textures or pixmaps that include their own bevels.

.IP "*WharfWithdrawStyle \fIstyle\fP"
Specifies the circumstances under which button 3 should cause the 
\fBWharf\fP to withdraw to a corner. If \fIstyle\fP is 0, button 3 will 
do nothing. If \fIstyle\fP is 1 (the default), a click on any button in 
the toplevel bar will cause \fBWharf\fP to withdraw to the nearest 
corner. If \fIstyle\fP is 2, a click on either the first or the last 
button in the toplevel bar will cause the withdrawal. The undocumented 
\fINoWithdraw\fP option, which does much the same thing, is deprecated - 
use \fIWithdrawStyle\fP instead.

.IP "*WharfForceSize"
If specified, will force pixmaps larger than 64x64 to the default
size of 64x64.  Pixmaps smaller than 64x64 are not supported.  This has
no effect on the icons used for applications.

.IP "*WharfRows \fIrows\fP"
Specifies the number of \fIrows\fP of buttons to be created. This will 
give your \fBWharf\fP a horizontal layout, with the number of rows equal 
to the number specified in \fIrows\fP. If unspecified, the number of rows 
will be set to 1.  If the \fIrows\fP are set to a number greater than 1, 
then there will be that number of rows with enough columns to satisfy the 
requested number of buttons.  Only one of \fI*WharfRows\fP or 
\fI*WharfColumns\fP should be specified.

.IP "*WharfColumns \fIcolumns\fP"
Specifies the number of \fIcolumns\fP of buttons to be created. This will 
give your \fBWharf\fP a vertical layout, with the number of columns equal 
to the number specificed in \fIcolumns\fP. If unspecified, the number of 
columns will be set to 1.  If the \fIcolumns\fP are set to a number 
greater than 1, then there will be that number of columns with enough 
rows to satisfy the requested number of buttons.  Only one of 
\fI*WharfRows\fP or \fI*WharfColumns\fP should be specified.

.IP "*WharfGeometry \fIgeometry\fP"
Specifies the \fBWharf\fP window location and/or size.  If the size is 
not specified, Wharf will auto-size itself in a reasonable manner. The 
\fIgeometry\fP is a standard X11 window geometry specification; see 
\fBXParseGeometry(3x)\fP, and \fBEXAMPLES\fP (below) for further details.

.IP "*Wharf \fIlabel-for-balloon icon command\fP"
The \fIlabel-for-balloon\fP is what appears in the \fIBalloons\fP if
balloons are used, otherwise this entry is still required.  Multiple 
entries can refer to the same wharf button by using the same 
\fIlabel-for-balloon\fP.

The \fIicon\fP field specifies an X11 bitmap file, XPM, JPEG, or PNG color
icon file or a comma-delimited set of pixmaps containing the icon(s) to
display on the button. These icon(s) will be displayed in front of the 
\fIWharfTextureColor\fP, \fIWharfPixmap\fP, or \fIWharfBgColor\fP, and 
behind any \fISwallow\fPed windows.  Transparent icons are allowed.

The \fIcommand\fP specifies an AfterStep built-in command (as described
in the afterstep man page) which should be executed when a button is 
pressed, or a \fBWharf\fP command.

.RE
.PP
.RS
The following \fBWharf\fP commands are available:

.IP "Swallow ""\fIwindow-name\fP"" \fIcommand\fP"
Causes \fBWharf\fP to run \fIcommand\fP, capture the first window whose 
name or resource is \fIwindow-name\fP, and display it in the associated 
button. The application window will be shrunk to fit the size of the 
button.

.IP "MaxSwallow ""\fIwindow-name\fP"" \fIcommand\fP"
Like \fISwallow\fP, except the button will be resized to fit the 
application.

.IP "SwallowModule ""\fIwindow-name\fP"" \fIcommand\fP"
Like \fISwallow\fP, except the \fIcommand\fP is an AfterStep module.

.IP "MaxSwallowModule ""\fIwindow-name\fP"" \fIcommand\fP"
Like \fIMaxSwallow\fP, except the \fIcommand\fP is an AfterStep module.

.IP "DropExec ""\fIlabel\fP"" \fIcommand %s %d\fP
Specifies a \fIcommand\fP to run when the associated button receives a 
Offix Drag & Drop event.  \fI%s\fP (if present) will be replaced with 
the dropped data, and \fI%d\fP (if present) will be replaced with the 
data type. See \fBEXAMPLES\fP below for an example.

.IP "Size \fIwidth\fP \fIheight\fP"
Sets the size of the associated button, overriding any other size 
consideration.

The \fBWharf\fP button size depends on several things.  The order of
precedence is:

.nf
1) Size definition
2) MaxSwallow'd window size
3) \fIWharfPixmap\fP size
4) Use 64x64.
.fi

.IP "Transient"
Specifies that this button will not perform any action, will not be 
pushable, and will not have an associated balloon.

.IP "Folder ""\fIfolder-name\fP"""
Defines a slide-out folder inside the current folder.  The following 
button definitions will be placed inside of the subfolder, until a 
\fI*Wharf ~Folder\fP line is encountered.  See the \fBEXAMPLES\fP 
section below for an example. Folders may be nested.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/usr/local/share/afterstep/wharf\fP
The global configuration file for system wide defaults of all users.

.IP \fI$HOME/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/wharf\fP
This file should be copied from the \fI/usr/local/share/afterstep/wharf\fP and edited to suit the user's specific requirements.  This file, if exists, will override the system wide default file.

.IP \fI/usr/local/share/afterstep/base.[8|15|16|24|32]bpp\fP
Contains the \fIIconPath\fP & \fIPixmapPath\fP global settings for the
\fBWharf\fP.

.IP \fI$HOME/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/base.[8|15|16|24|32]bpp\fP
This file should be copied from the\fI/usr/local/share/afterstep/base.[8|15|16|24|32]bpp\fP and edited to suit the user's specific requirements for the \fIIconPath\fP & \fIPixmapPath\fP settings of the \fBWharf\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
The \fIwharf\fP file shipped contains many examples, refer to the 
\fBCONFIGURATION OPTIONS\fP section above for its configuration options.

\fBWharf\fP geometries are fundamentally an offset with a value of pixels 
from a specified corner of the screen, with format [+-]X[+-]Y. The + and - 
definitions for the offset specify which corner of the screen to place 
\fBWharf\fP in. Here's a nifty picture to illustrate:

.nf
________________
|++          -+|
|              |
|              |
|              |
|+-          --|
----------------
.fi

For example, \fIGeometry\fP -5-5 would place \fBWharf\fP in the lower 
right hand corner, 5 pixels left and 5 pixels up from the corner.

To create slide-out folders in \fBWharf\fP the following format must 
be used:
.nf

*Wharf files Folders.xpm,3_dots.xpm Folder
*Wharf xftp 3DRings.xpm	Exec "" xftp &
*Wharf xdir FolderDeposit.xpm Exec "" xdir &
*Wharf moxfm FilingCabinet.xpm Exec "" moxfm &
*Wharf ~Folder

.fi
The first line of this set tells Wharf that this button definition will 
be a folder.  All of the button definitions between the \fIFolder\fP and 
the line with the definition of \fI*Wharf ~Folder\fP will appear on the 
"files" folder when it is exposed.  To expose the "files" folder simply 
click on the Wharf button with the Folders.xpm icon showing.  A button 
bar will appear perpendicular to your Wharf bar and toward the center of 
the screen.  On this smaller bar will be the three icons that were configured 
between the \fIFolder\fP and \fI~Folder\fP parts of the \fBWharf\fP 
configuration.  Folders may be nested.
 

\fBWharf\fP supports the OffiX Drag and Drop standard.  The following is 
an example of a \fIDropExec\fP line:
.nf

*Wharf trash Recyler.xpm DropExec "" rm %s
*Wharf trash - Restart "" afterstep

.fi

The button will restart AfterStep when pushed.  If a file is dragged
onto into it, \fIrm\fP will be called with \fI%s\fP being replaced 
by the dropped filename.

.SH AUTHORS
Beat Christen <bchriste@iiic.ethz.ch>
.nf
Frank Fejes <frank@ssax.com>
.nf
Alfredo Kengi Kojima <kojima@inf.ufrgs.br>
.nf
Dan Weeks <dan@mango.sfasu.edu>
.nf
Bo Yang <eric@coeus.ucsd.edu>
.nf
Robert Nation
.nf
David Mihm <dmihm@swbell.net> [Man page]
.nf
Ethan Fischer <allanon@crystaltokyo.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR afterstep (1),
.BR Pager (1),
.BR X (1),
.BR Zharf (1)
