.\" t
.\" @(#)Audio.1	02/07/00
.TH Audio 1.8 "Feb 7 2000"
.UC
.SH NAME
\fBAudio\fP \- the AfterStep Sounds module

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBAudio\fP [\-f \fIconfig_file\fP] [\-v | \--version] [\-h | \--help]
.sp
Although \fBAudio\fP can be run from the command line, it is normally 
spawned by afterstep in the \fIautoexec\fP file, in the following manner:
.nf
.sp
	Module	"I"	Audio 
.sp
.nf
or from within an afterstep menu file by 'Audio':
.nf
.sp
% cat "~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/start/Modules/Audio"
	Module "Audio" Audio
	MiniPixmap "mini-as.xpm"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBAudio\fP module communicates with the AfterStep window manager to
bind audio sounds to window manager actions. Different audio queues may be
assigned to any window manager action. \fBAudio\fP can be used with
any independent audio player, and therefore requires no special audio
library APIs of its own. Simple in its design, it merely binds the audio
filenames to particular actions and forks off the audio player program
with the appropriate filename when that action occurs. 

If You have Rplay client-server installed and working \fBAudio\fP can use 
libRplay. It will try to autodetect it at the time of running configure
and if it finds it  - "builtin-rplay" will be placed as the default
AudioPlay type.

In addition Audio can copy Audion samples from .au files into /dev/audio
on itself, or it can dump contents of the specifyed files into STDOUT, 
so you can redirect it anywhere you want.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-f \fIconfig_file\fP"
Use \fIconfig_file\fP instead of the default configuration file.

.IP "\-h | \--help"
Print a usage message and exit successfully.

.IP "\-v | \--version"
Print version information and exit successfully.

.SH INITIALIZATION
During initialization, \fBAudio\fP will search for a configuration file
which describes the audio player and sound files associated with actions,
to use.  This file will be the one specified by the \fI\-f\fP option (if 
given).  Else, the ~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/audio file will be used 
if it exists.  Else, /usr/local/share/afterstep/audio will be used.

.SH INVOCATION
\fBAudio\fP can be invoked from the \fIautoexec\fP file or from a menu
item as shown in the Synopsis section above.

AfterStep will search through the directories specified in the
\fIModulePath\fP configuration in the \fIbase.#bpp\fP (where # is your
colordepth) to attempt to locate \fBAudio\fP.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
\fBAudio\fP reads the \fIaudio\fP file when it starts up and looks for
its configuration options.

.IP "*AudioPath \fIpath\fP"
Specifies the \fIpath\fP to look for the audio files.  This option
is ignored when rplay is used.

.IP "*AudioPlayCmd \fIplayer\fP"
This determines parameters for audio player program that will actually
play the sounds, or any of the built-in players.  
The following are built-in options :
.IP ""
.nf
\fIbuiltin-rplay\fP -  builtin rplay support will be used 
(must have rplay installed);
\fIbuiltin-cat\fP - sound data will be sent to /dev/audio 
directly (this can only be used if AfterStep runs on
the same computer as X Server).
\fIbuiltin-stdout\fP - sound data will be dumped into 
STDOUT so you can redirect it anywhere you want.
.fi
.IP ""
Anything other then these built in options will be considered a command 
line parameters for the external player. External player itself has to 
be specifyed at compile time using --with-soundplayer option for configure.
Default is "play" utility from the SoX package.
If this option is ommited then external player is used with no parameters.
.IP ""
Note: sound file to be played always goes as the last parameter in external 
player's command line.

.IP "*AudioDelay \fIseconds\fP"
Specifies that sound events will only be played if they occur
at least so many \fIseconds\fP after the previous event.  Sound events that
occur during the delay period are ignored.  This option is useful if 
you don't want several sounds playing at the same time.  The default
delay is 0 which disables the audio delay.

.IP "*AudioRplayHost \fIhostname\fP"
Specifies what host the sounds will play on.  The \fIhostname\fP can also
be an environment variable such as $HOSTDISPLAY. This option is only valid
with builtin rplay support. If this is left out then Audio will attempt
to connect to rplay daemon on the same host that is running X first, then
to localhost. 

.IP "*AudioRplayPriority \fIpriority\fP"
Specifies what \fIpriority\fP will be assigned to the sounds when they
are played.  This option is only valid with builtin rplay support.

.IP "*AudioRplayVolume \fIlevel\fP"
Specifies what volume \fIlevel\fP will be assigned to the sounds when they
are played.  This option is only valid with builtin rplay support.

.IP "*Audio \fIaction filename\fP"
Binds the particular window manager \fIaction\fP that the sound
\fIfilename\fP is played for.

.RE
.PP
.RS
The following \fBaction\fPs are available for sounds:
.IP ""
.nf
startup 
shutdown
unknown
add_window
raise_window
lower_window
focus_change
destroy_window
iconify
deiconify
toggle_paging
new_page
new_desk
configure_window
window_name
icon_name
res_class
res_name
end_windowlist
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
Sasha Vasko <sashav at sprintmail.com>
.nf
Frank Fejes <frank@ssax.com>
.nf
Dan Weeks <dan@mango.sfasu.edu>
.nf
Szijarto Szabolcs <saby@sch.bme.hu>
.nf
Mark Boyns <boyns@sdsu.edu>
.nf
Mark Scott <mscott@mcd.mot.com>
.nf
Robert Nation
.nf
David Mihm <dmihm@swbell.net> [man page]

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR afterstep (1),
.BR rplay (1),
.BR showaudio (1)
