.\" t
.\" @(#)asetroot.1  12/10/98
.TH asetroot 1.7.9 "Jun 16 1999" asetroot
.UC
.SH NAME
\fBasetroot\fP \- the AfterStep desktop background management module

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBasetroot\fP [\-f \fIconfig_file\fP] [\-v | \--version] [\-h | \--help] 
[\-l | \--loadonly] [\-k | \--kill] [n [m]]
.sp
Although \fBasetroot\fP can be run from the command line, it is normally 
spawned by afterstep in the \fIautoexec\fP file, in the following
manner:
.nf
.sp
	Module	"I"	asetroot
	Wait	"I"	asetroot	
.sp
.fi
In case you use asetroot to switch your root backgrounds 
\fIWait\fP can be used as shown above.  This will insure that the 
\fBasetroot\fP has set the root background before you start
any further apps (like transparent aterms and Eterms).
.sp
or from within an afterstep menu file by 'asetroot':
.nf
.sp
% cat "~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/start/Modules/asetroot"
	Module "asetroot" asetroot
	MiniPixmap "mini-as.xpm"
.fi

To stop the \fBasetroot\fP module, a menu item can be used:
.nf
.sp
% cat "~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/start/Modules/asetroot_Stop"
	KillModuleByName "Stop asetroot" asetroot
	MiniPixmap "mini-as.xpm"
.fi

Note: if asetroot used with either  -k(--kill) or -l(--loadonly) 
options it can be started both as a module or as regular app, as it 
does not communicate with AfterStep in that case. You can even add it
to your .xinitrc to load X root background prior to starting 
window manager.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Depending on the options it is started with, \fBasetroot\fP can perform 
different tasks:
.sp
Normal mode: \fBasetroot\fP will load root backgrounds for specified 
range of desks into memory, it will set X property containing
information  allowing usage of this backgrounds by other
modules/applications, and will remain resident, tracking desk changes
and changing root background accordingly. It is recommended that you
don't use any other apps to switch backgrounds in this mode for this
particular range of desks.
.sp
Load-only mode: \fBasetroot\fP will load root backgrounds for specified
range of desks into memory, it will set X property containing
information allowing usage of this backgrounds by other
modules/applications. It will then quit,  leaving all the required
images resident in X memory, leaving it to other apps to switch
backgrounds (like Pager). That provides some memory savings, as you run
only one module instead of two. 
.sp
Kill mode: It's not good to litter memory with multimegabyte images in
the  memory. You can use kill mode of \fBasetroot\fP to cleanup memory
from loaded images when they are no longer needed, for example when
quiting AfterStep, or when using same background on all desks (in that
latter case it's enough to set background once and it will stay there
forever). Kill mode will kill all backgrounds - you can't specify desks
range here!
.sp
\fBasetroot\fP was designed to be as bulletproof as possible, but
improper usage can lead it to cause crashes in AfterStep, Pager, Wharf
and transparent aterms, if you havily using transparency. By all means
avoid running two  different asetroots on the same range of desks, at
the same time.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.IP $SCREEN_GAMMA
Value of this env variable is used to gamma-correct PNG and JPEG images,
when loading them from files. Default value of 1.0 is used if this 
variable is not defined - which means no correction at all. Try using 
2.2 for some older monitors to get brighter images.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-f \fIconfig_file\fP"
Use \fIconfig_file\fP instead of the default configuration file.

.IP "\-h | \--help"
Print a usage message and exit successfully.

.IP "\-v | \--version"
Print version information and exit successfully.

.IP "\-l | \--loadonly"
\fBasetroot\fP starts in Load-only mode ( see above ).

.IP "\-k | \--kill"
\fBasetroot\fP starts in Kill mode ( see above ).

.IP "n [m]"
Optional parameter that is limiting \fBasetroot\fP functionality to range 
of desks. n - specifies lower desk number, m - upper desk number.

.SH INITIALIZATION
During initialization, \fIasetroot\fP will search for a configuration 
file which describes the image operations to perform on the root pixmap.  
This file will be the one specified by the \fI\-f\fP option (if given).  
Else, the ~/GNUstep/Library/AfterStep/asetroot file will be used if it 
exists.  Else, /usr/local/share/afterstep/asetroot will be used.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

.IP "*asetrootDeskBack  \fIdesk# ""background""\fP\"
Specifies what background to use for \fIdesk#\fP. \fI"background"\fP can
be either image filename in doublequotes, or the name of background
definition (see below).

.IP "MyBackground ""\fIbackground_name\fP"""
.IP "  \fIbackground_option\fP"
.IP "~MyBackground"
Specifies the beginning of a background definition. The background can
be  referred to later by \fIbackground_name\fP. \fI~MyBackground\fP ends
a  root background definition. The possible \fIbackground_option\fPs
follow:

.RS
.IP "Use \fItype  ""data""\fP"
Specifies what to use as the root background. Possible \fItype\fP values
are :
.nf
0: load image from the file. In that case \fI""data""\fP should specify
filename.

1: Use MyStyle definition to fill root. In that case \fI""data""\fP
should specify one of the MyStyle names defined in your look file.

2: Use external application to set root background. \fI""data""\fP
should  specify command line options to this external app. By default
xli is used. Change it to something else, if you want, in options to
./configure.
.fi
.sp
Note: remaining Background options are valid only for type of 0 !!!

.sp
remaining options will perform trasformations on the source image, 
in this order: Cut->Tint->Scale->Align->Pad.

.IP "Cut \fIgeometry\fP"
will cut piece with specified \fIgeometry\fP from the source image.

.IP "Tint \fIcolor\fP"
will tint image with \fIcolor\fP. Use shades of gray to obtain darkened
image. Note: this only works on TrueColor displays.

.IP "Scale [\fIgeometry\fP]"
scale image to specified \fIgeometry\fP. If \fIgeometry\fP is omitted
asetroot will scale it to the screen size.

.IP "Align [\fItype\fP]"
it will align resulting image according to \fItype\fP. 
Possible values are :
.nf
1: - align to the right of the screen
2: - align to the bottom of the screen
3: - align to the bottom-right of the screen
0 or 4: - align to the center of the screen
.fi
This option works only in conjunction with the following Pad option.

.IP "Pad [\fItype color\fP]"
will pad image if it is smaller then screen with specified \fIcolor\fP.
Possible \fItype\fP values are :
.nf
1: - pad horizontally and tile vertically 
2: - pad vertically and tile
horizontally 
3: - pad both vertically and horizontally to make image the
size of the screen.
.fi

.SH BUGS
SCALE is produces low quality images.

.SH AUTHOR
Rafal Wierzbicki
.nf
Sasha Vasko (asimagelib)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR afterstep (1)\  Pager (1)
